Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 87. In this
episode, Scott talks with Dominic
buyer about identity server and
asp.net. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes today. I'm
talking with Dominic buyer and
you've worked on identity services
and identity things for, for
many years now, haven't you?
Yeah, it feels like forever.
Why was that an area
that you jumped into? I
think I was always like,
like a, like a believer
in, in the authentication as
a service idea, you know,
like way, way back when
I installed windows server groups.
Yeah. The first mainstream way
to connect machines in, in
a home network kind of
thing. You know, you had
this, this idea of windows
that you basically could seamlessly
access resource on the network,
like file fileshares and printers
and so on, but to
make that work, you had
to go to every single
machine and set up the
same account with the same
password everywhere. And if you
wanted to change your password,
you had to go to
all of the machines and
change your password and so
on and so forth. And
Microsoft fixed that by, you
know, introducing the idea of
a domain like the windows
domain. And that's where I
got interested into in authentication
protocols. Like, you know, NTLM
first and then Kerberos and,
you know, the domain, the
idea of a domain and
the domain controller as a
technical means to it solve
this problem, like single sign
on across your machines and
the account on the list
in a single place and
as a service in your
network that provides the authentication
for all of the things
that are interested in it.
And you know, that, that,
that kind of got me
interested. And that was funny.
I remember that like, you're,
you're bringing back a point
of pain from the past
where we had to run
around to every machine and
make sure that the same
users and passwords existed on
the same machines, looking back
what a stupid idea that
was. Yeah. And, and I,
by the time that was
roughly the time when I,
you know, finished university and
did that, ed was like,
like, you know, the late
nineties kind of the NT
four days. And then, and
then windows 2000 with this
really exciting thing called active
directory and the protocols. And,
you know, it was really
interesting and, and technically amazing
how this stuff worked. And
so, you know, windows provided
and I was a w
develop at a time and
I wrote mostly software for
intranet. Well, like everybody did,
I guess at that time.
And, you know, windows just
provide the disc, this magic,
you know, this, this checkbox
enable windows integrated authentication, and,
you know, that's all you
needed as things started working.
And, and then later on,
you know, moving forward, I
build more and more internet
enabled applications. And suddenly we
didn't have the luxury anymore
of an active directory that,
that just took care of
everything, right. Suddenly, you know,
because windows authentication only works
if all of the parties
are in the same domain,
like the client and the
servers and the users and
all that. So, you know,
built for many, many years
like everyone did, I guess,
many applications, we have, you
know, forms authentication, for example.
And you wrote that login
page over and over again.
And, you know, writing a
good login page is actually
hard work. I mean, all
of the, the things you
need to know about how
to store your passwords and
how to validate your passwords
and, you know, proved false
attacks and you know, this
and that. So, and I
thought, why, why doesn't do,
you know, like the same
idea of indication as a
service, why doesn't this exist
for, you know, non windows
environments, you know, just as
an application service, so to
speak and, and you know,
that, and, and the whole
idea of single sign on
that comes with that. Like,
you know, like, like, like,
like with the active directory,
you wouldn't install an ADE
just for a single computer,
but once you have a
number of computers, it gave
you many benefits. And the
same idea was with applications.
Once you have like two
or three applications, you might
want to give to use
as a single sign on
experience across the applications. So,
and then back in two
days, eight, I think Microsoft
released a thing called the
windows identity foundation. And that
was the first time, day,
day made single sign on
protocols that are, that were
independent of windows authentication part
of.net, or, but by the
time it, it was a
separate download, but then it
became later part of.net and.net
4.5. And that's where I
wrote my first, what is
called a security token service.
So that's basically D the
active directory domain controller for
applications, so to speak. We
see that, that STS a
lot in, in URLs now,
especially if you've done any
kind of logging into corporations,
you know, you'll, you'll log
into a site, you'll bounce
over to a secure token
service, and then you'll bounce,
you'll bounce back. And that
seems like that marks a
fundamental shift in how we
pass security information around. I
mean, there's a lot of
websites using basic auth over
SSL, and then maybe using
some hash to techniques over
SSL, but for the most
part, they're throwing their name
and password around. How does
this STS concept differ? So
the idea is, is authentication
as a service. Yeah. So
you're writing an application. You
don't have to be a
security expert for that. You're,
you're concentrating on your business
domain. You want to implement,
and you have to think
called a security token service,
which implements the authentication process
for you. And then you
use a protocol basically to
hand over control to this
STS thing. The STS does
all of the, you know,
the hard, complicated security stuff,
validating the user's identity and
so on. And the SDS
basically froze you back. So-called
security token over the fence
that you can validate. And
once you, you know, you
make sure it is coming
from a trusted, from a
trusted party. Then this token
contains the information you want
to know about that user.
And that that's a really
simple contract. You, you, you
go to an STS, the
STS makes it happen and
sends you back the information
about the user, you know,
just like active directory back
in the day. Now, how
does a secure token server
relate or fit into this
concept that we hear so
much about now called claims-based
authentication? Okay. So claims are
really Just a way to,
To describe the identity of
a user. So again, this
is not a new idea
at all. So active directory
have claimed support since day,
one day. They just had
a very limited support for
it. So in windows security,
we basically only have two
claim types as we call
them. One is the name
of a user, and one
other two groups this user
is member of. And so
basically every croup is a
claim, but not every claim
is accrued. So claims are
more like a product concept,
like think of key value
pairs, like, you know, first
name, Dominic, last name, buyer,
favorite color blue. Yeah. So
basically a way to, to
describe the identity of a
user using key value pairs
or statements as we call
them in claim space, identity.
Okay. And when you're passing
claims around, do you pass
less information or less context?
Do you like, do you
have to do less because
you really only care if,
if someone meets the claim
or not, you don't need
all of the information about,
Well, typically protocols, a way
of telling the STS, which
claims you're interested in. So,
so for example, you can
say, Hey, I want to
know profile information about Dominic.
So that might be the
first name, last name, his
nickname, maybe a link to
his profile picture, stuff like
that. Or, or you might
say like, okay, I need
his email address. Or maybe
you only care about having
a unique ID of the
user that you can use
to correlate local information with
that user. So that's basically
up to the application asking
for those claims, okay. Trying
to get my head around
this. I'm trying to put
these things into the context
of how, how I do
things in existing applications. Like
right now, I understand that
I think the people who
are listening to understand how
to do basic authentication against
a person, and then we
always have this, let's just
refer to it in the
context of asp.net. This old
idea of is enroll, right?
Where we, we have a
data, another database somewhere that
keeps track of whether or
not a user is in
a particular role. How does
that differ from passing a
claim around like, is the
claim cryptographically significant somehow? Well,
again, the way this works
is typically, I mean, let's,
let's relate that maybe two
forms authentication asp.net, because that's
a close idea, just that
the form, now it doesn't
live anymore in your own
application. It lives in a
central place. Okay. That's a
good, that's a very good
example. So like in informs
authentication, you always had to
have to provide a log
in URL in your web
conflict, for example, right. But
this had to be a
local URL in your local
application. The way these authentication
protocols work is you specify
basically a URL to some
other server other service login
page. Right. Okay. And then
the user gets bounds to
this server. This server is
connected to the database that
holds the password of the
user, for example, and also
holds, you know, other information
like his roles, for example.
And then once that, that
central authentication service done it,
it passes the information back
to the, to the application
that are, that, that, that
was asking for it. And
the way that the physical
format it passes that back
is called a security token.
So that's a crypto graphically
sealed data structure. And this
thing contains the claims and
which claims it contains depends
typically on which claims the
application wants to know about
that user. Okay. Yeah. So
the thing that we passed
around in the context of
asp.net was an asp.net formatted
cookie that had some cryptography
in it. But this, this
new format is this a
standard, has the world gotten
together and agreed that this
is how we store these
things in cookies. So the
cookie will, will, and is
still in private implementation form
it because you, you don't
use cookies to cross boundaries.
So the way the authentication
service exchanges, the data with
data, client application that has
been standardized, and that is
called a chase in DEP
token, that's basically a chase
and formatted data structure, which
has, you know, key value
pairs. And the authentication server
passes the information to the
claims back to the, to
the client application using is
chasing that token format. Then
the client application validates that,
chasing that token and turns
it into a cookie. And
from that point on, it
doesn't really matter anymore because
it's cookie is a private
implementation detail off the application.
And there's a website that's
jwt.io. That's really very educational,
a good way to go
up and see tokens and
then chop them up into
their component parts. So yeah,
I use that thing all
the time when writing code,
like, like it's a brilliant
way to Deepak you're chasing
web tokens, so to speak.
So you are, you are,
you are playing with your
token service. You want to
see what's coming back, you
just copy and paste this
thing into the, into the
website and they show you
the contents because chasing up
tokens are basics for URL
encoded. So, you know, that
makes it just easier to
look, to have a peek
inside of the tokens. No,
I have to say though,
as an old timer, a
lot of this feels very
familiar to the things that
we were doing with, you
know, Ws security, you know,
a couple of years ago,
except it's curly braces instead
of angle brackets, what are
we doing differently and how,
how much of this is
the past coming back versus
new new ideas. So all
of these protocols, to be
honest with you, they are
just re implementations of Kerberos.
That's why I left this
protocol the March, because it
had all the ideas in
it. So Kerberos was binary
and obviously not internet friendly.
Then the second wave was
kind of Ws security, as
you mentioned, which was, you
know, like text and XML
encoded and could be transported
over HDP. But the problem
with Ws security is that
it's way too complicated. So
you need like a fully
featured XML stack on, on
every platform you're using with
which supports, you know, XML,
encryption, and XML, digital signatures.
And, you know, with the
advent of the, the small
factor, personal computers, like your
phones, for example, people are
looking for something, you know,
that can be implemented with,
you know, Java script or,
you know, easier to use
technologies. And w security has
still has its place it's
it's around, but it is
confident to be very, very
heavy, especially for mobile devices.
And you want to, you
know, people often use the
term API friendly, so it
must be API friendly and
it must be mobile friendly.
And the chasing up tokens
completely meet this criteria because,
you know, chasing is the
native format in, in script.
And every platform out there
can read and craft chasing.
So Web tokens and the
JWT dot, well, let me
rephrase the jwt.io website comes
from this company called auth
zero, right? How much of
this is what you call
defacto standards versus standards that
someone's in our, you know,
a bunch of players in
a room really agreeing on.
Okay. So chasing that token
is an RFC. It's, it's
a, it's a standard, all
the protocols that I'm describing,
but haven't mentioned yet, which
is called open ID connect
and OAuth two, they all
standards. So we are right
now in a pretty good
spot that we actually have
standards that everybody agrees on.
They are easy to use
as opposed to Ws security,
for example, and they are
interoperable. And so right now
we are in a, in
a we're living in really
good times for, for these
kinds of technologies Do now.
So on the asp.net side,
there's been kind of a
number of reboots of identity
over the years, some more
successful than others. And, and
you've been very outspoken about
what you thought was good
and what you thought wasn't
good. And is it true
that you and your buddy
Brock Island kind of got
together and said that, you
know, here's a, here's a
better way to do identity?
So Brock I know broke
for like, I think 10
or 12 years now. And,
you know, like when we
start, when I started building
identity about the very first
version was called starter STS.
So, you know, which kind
of transports what I had
in mind, like giving people
an easy start to, to
get these technologies into their
applications. And then it evolved
over the years. And so
starting with identities have aversion
to Brock and I work
together. So for the last
three or four years, we've
been pretty much, you know,
working almost every, every day
together on, on, on the,
We kicked it off. And
then you found your, your,
your kindred spirit. Yeah. Luckily,
because that takes the first
couple of years, it was
all me, but it became
too much work to be
honest. So I was always
like, as I said in
the beginning, more like on
the protocol side of things.
So I was totally interested
in how to implement these
protocols, that con that, you
know, that transport the tokens
back and forth and how
to build the tokens and
how to validate them and
these things. And I remember
like broke and I had
like a conversation couple of
years back, and we were
like, you know, angry about
the original asp.net membership system,
the membership provider, like a
broken, I have been teaching
for many, many years. And
we, we, we basically explained
the membership and the road
system to many people over
those years. And I always
had to show them that
desk is based class called
membership provider. And you have
to 28 methods on that.
And you don't care about
any of those besides the
validate user one. So one
evening were basically choking Ohio.
I was talking basically saying
like, you know what, this
membership thing needs to reboot.
And that's why that's where
Brock picked up the idea
of like, Oh, let's write
a something called membership reboot.
And membership reboot is basically
an API over your database.
Like just like the new
Espinoza identity that is part
of ACO net. So Brock
was more at the times,
at least more concentrating on
how to store users, how
to validate users, how to
store passwords in a secure
way, where I was more
like focusing on how to
transport that stuff over the
network, like the outcome of
the authentication event, so to
speak. And, you know, we've
been working on that ever
since. And I think last
year we finished version free
of a dentist, which is
now a pure implementation of
OAuth two and open eConnect
where you can block in
whatever identity system you like.
You can block a membership
reboot, you can block an
identity, or you can write
your own or connect to
an existing one that might
be around in your, you
know, in your, in your
company already. And the reason
why we basically chose to
basically rewrite the whole thing
and focus on these two
protocols of, to an open
reconnect is because it, they
are like the perfect fit
for building these modern web
and mobile applications that are
powered by APIs. This episode
of Hansel minutes is brought
to you by brain tree
code for easy online payments.
If you're building a mobile
app and you're searching for
a simple payment solution, check
out Braintree, the brain tree
v.zero SDK makes it easy
to offer multiple mobile payment
types. So you can start
accepting PayPal, Apple pay Bitcoin,
Venmo, credit cards, and more
all with a single integration,
one small snippet of code.
And you're set up in
less than 10 minutes. If
you don't have time, you
can give them a call.
They'll even handle the integration
for you and walk you
through it. The SDK supports
seven languages, dotnet node, Java,
Perl, PHP, Python, and Ruby
elegant code clear documentation to
learn more. And for your
first $50,000 in transactions fee
free, go to brain tree
payments.com/hanselman that's Braintree payments.com/hanselman. What
do, what should the person
who's listening, who, who may
be an asp.net person, think
about how this fits into
what Comes out of the
box and how Parts have
you said, this is better
versus saying, this is an
extension and this adds new
functions. So on the, on
the side of storing users
and databases, it's pretty much
a matter of taste. The
membership reboot and eighth minute
of the has pretty much
the same feature set. Microsoft
started like a year later
and then broke it, but
catched up quite quickly, the
feature set is very, very
similar. They use different coding
styles. So that's more or
less like a matter of
taste if you like. I
wasn't particularly happy with, you
know, like what used to
be called the, Oh, was
a bear authorization server middleware
or something by the time,
which is the thing that
can, that can create tokens.
So since I was always
like the token creation geek,
so to speak, yeah, I
thought like I can do
that better. And we, we,
we created this thing called
identity server, which is also
a middleware, you know, plucks
into the Owen Katana pipeline,
chest STL and middleware, but
it is designed right from
the start at a much
higher abstraction level. So my
main point of critique for
the built in middle West
by the time was that
you still had to know
the protocols, very, very detailed
to not have security problems.
Where were we in our
middleware, you know, took a
step back and said, okay,
we want to shield a
typical developer from the protocol
details, but give him enough
express ability. So to speak,
to, to model his application
architecture. So we, we don't
require people to understand all
of the low level stuff.
And, you know, like which,
which Paramita must go to
where, and what's the signing
algorithm and all these little
things, we kind of give
them three main things that
they can model, which is
clients, which are the applications
that are requiring authentication, which
are users, which are your
humans, your carbon based life
forms in your, in your
system. And, and just the
so called scopes. So scopes
is a, is a term
from the oil specification, which
models resources in your network.
Like, like you have APIs.
So you define clients, use
us and scopes and identity
that takes care of the
rest, so to speak. And
it's very flexible. You've got
how to do it on
NBC, how to do it
in a web API, how
to do it in Ws
Federation. You've got self hosting.
You've got, I mean, it's,
it's surprisingly deep, particularly I'm
impressed with your, your server,
your samples, you know, they
go on. Yeah. And on
and on. Yeah. I mean,
the whole flexibility on the
hosting side of things like
on the service side of
things was actually enabled by
Catana. So Katana for me
was like one of the
most important things that came
out in the last year,
which, you know, gives me
the flexibility to host it,
like in IAS or in
an empty service, embedded into
an application and things like
that. And yeah, and then
it turns out once, once
they implement those protocols, which
are really designed from the
start to be cross-platform and
there are no, no barriers
for the, to, to, to
take part in that you
can write so many different
clients for that. I mean,
from, from highly powered.net framework
lines to, you know, embedded
systems, as long as the
client can speak HTP, it,
it can take part in,
in that, in that system.
So talk to me about
where identity server would fit
into a world where we
have all these, these companies
like auth zero that are
promising to make things easy.
Like what is all zero
four and why would I
use them and not identity
server? So We made a
very deliberate decision. That identity
server is not like a,
an off the shelf product.
We don't have an install.
ACCE w we are a
framework basically. So we require
at developer to, to start
using it, to start customizing
it. So the whole point
is we want people to
be able to customize it.
So it's, it's a DLL,
you download a DLL, you
have to host it in
your own process. You have
to write code to get
it working. And by using
that approach, I think we
have achieved a great deal
of flexibility, because if I
learned one thing over the
last, you know, 10 years
of consulting is that, you
know, you talk to 10
customers and they have 11
different ways of doing things.
Yeah. So, so with the
previous version of identifier, we
kind of took the, the
off the shelf approach and
try to make everything configurable
and so on now. And
if it turned out it
didn't work. There were so
many times people had to
customize the source code to
get what they want. And
it's, it's funny, you mentioned
Osira because they actually good
friends of mine. And I
looked at their product. And
when I saw their UI,
I thought like, wow, there's,
there's no way I want
to compete with that. So
they have a really good
user interface, you know, like
for Orsiro is made for
people that don't want to
own the technology in, in
their own, you know, like
in their own team, they,
they, they want to be
able to go to a
web interface and configure stuff,
and they are really good
at their configuration story and,
and be done where we
say like, you know what?
We give you a framework
and you can customize it
in many, much, much more
ways than you can ever
customize an off the shelf
product. So that's kind of
the distinction between us and
things like products like zero,
when you choose identity server
a and it's a.net based
library. So it mostly appeals
to.net shops, really where people
write C sharp code and
you have be prepared to
have a developer or a
team of developers that own,
that feature inside your company.
There is, you know, austere
or Azure active directory falls
in the same category. You're
buying a hosted product. You
don't have to host it
yourself. You don't have to
know that much about the
internals as you probably need
to know with our stuff,
but you also have less
flexibility. And the idea, and
the other thing is, especially
in Germany, a cloud only
solution in the security space
is not that interesting for
most people in, in, in
Europe where, you know, Azure
is a cloud only solution
or zero also has an
appliance option, for example, but
I'm still, I think the
main distinction point is a
framework versus a product. That's
a really, that's a really
good way to explain it
Because it's, it's confusing out
there for people who are
interested in doing it right,
right. And everyone wants to
do authentication. Right. And they
want to do it in
a way that, that solves
all the problems that they
have future, future proofs them.
You know, this seems to
be that we seem to
have as an industry to
finally start to standardize in
a way that we could
write solutions that we don't
necessarily have to rewrite again
in a few years. I
think that the main, the
main success story for identity
service that over the last
one and a half years
now, where we've been integrating
it into a systems we
never, ever had to customize
the source code for, for
a customer, for example. So
they did, they could just
use the, the, the API
service that we provide to
customize it in any way
that it fits their workflows,
their existing databases, their, you
know, existing regulations and, you
know, everything that, that is
nonstandard Because you're just so
plugable, and you've gone out
of your way to make
things plugable. Yes. I think
we, you know, like the
last eight years or so
of being India in the
security token business, kind of,
we are, we've found a
good balance between, you know,
what is, what are the
things that people shouldn't know
about or shouldn't have to
know about and what are
the things that people want
to change. And I think
we are really, really happy
with how that turned out
with the version free. Yeah.
So if you hit identity
server.io, you're, you're given the
choice, identity manager, identity server
identity model that, that kind
of left me wondering what
to do next. Can you
explain those three things and
what I'm supposed to do
now? Yes. So strictly speaking,
we are involved in three
big open source projects, but
like we are only two
people. So the domain one
we're working on is identity
server. Really? That is actually
also part of the dotnet
foundation. That's a dotnet foundation
project as well. And that's
the, the security token service.
That's our walls to an
open MediConnect implementation, then there's
identity manager. And I think
you wrote a blog post
about that, like a year
ago or something, which is
like an, an idea a
user management tool made for
admins or developers. So, you
know, roughly speaking, it's, it's
like a replacement you've got
back in the days. That
was the way that the
asp.net configuration tool or something
built into visual studio that
allowed you to create users,
to put them into roles
and all these things, and
that got removed at some
point. So Brock basically wrote
this replacement for it. So
it's, it's a web based
user management tool, not for
self service because many people
asking for self service, like,
do we support things like
change password and reset password?
No, it it's more like
an admin or a developer
tool. So you can, you
know, have a view into
your user database. And again,
we support a, through an
entity and membership reboot out
of the box and identity
model is actually a collection
of helper libraries that make
your life a little bit
easier when dealing with this
claim space security, it's a,
for both.net and also for
JavaScript. So we are, we've
written Java script clients up.
That's actually proxy a little
project Java script clients for
connecting to open ID connect
service, like for example, identity
server. But they're also those
net based libraries. For example,
again, same idea like an
old client, for example, so
that you don't have to
know the protocol you, but
if you say, give me
a token, you, you know,
you use a library for
that. So I identity model
our tools, identity manager as
the user management story and
identity service, our token. Okay,
cool. And when I, when
I show up here and
I click on identity server,
is there a particular, you
know, primary place for docs?
Are you keeping them all
on, on the Wiki or
is there a, I know
that you have got the
identity server documentation site. What
are you doing your docs
in? Is this markdown or
Yes, w we're using markdown
and we're using basically guitar
pages like . So we,
we, that, that turns it
into a aesthetic aesthetic, a
webpage and the, the, the,
the main reason we did
that is the main feature
I love about it is
that when people want to
improve the docs or find
typos or whatever, they can
just send us a poor
request and we can update
the docs, or if they
want to add docs to
it, like we had that,
like where somebody added more
explanation to a walkthrough, you
know, that's, that's, that's so
easy to do with this
approach. I really liked the
page called the big picture
that sits down and explains
to you, you know, how
apps usually work and how
apps work when you have
all the different protocols plugged
in, you know, whether it
be, Oh, Watts two, or,
you know, how SAML works
and open ID connect and
how it all plugged together.
Right. And also that desert
has another one called terminology,
which I think is really,
really important, which explains basically
what our users, what our
clients, what our scopes, because
these are the spiffy speaking
that the only three things
you have to understand. Yeah.
Yeah. Fantastic. So people can
check all of this out@identityserver.io,
and it definitely a big
thanks to you and, and
Brock. And, and do you
have any other People who
are helping or do you
have pull requests coming in?
Yeah, it's amazing. Actually. So
when we started with this
version three, we immediately kind
of had a feeling that
we were like hitting the
sweet spot, because like, this
thing wasn't even done yet.
And we had like hundreds
and hundreds of issues, like,
like people actually asking questions
and improving stuff. And we
have, let me have a
look here. We have 23
con contributors. I mean, you
know, mostly smaller stuff because
there were not that many
people out there, which, you
know, have fun writing security
libraries. Isn't exactly a high
on my list of fun
things to do, which is
why I'm so glad that
you guys do it. Yeah.
I actually got a lot
out of that. Well, thanks
so much for chatting with
me today. Yeah. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.